asciigen -- algorithm

  --algo NAME                              ramp | bitmask | structure
                                                           (structure)

  ramp        cell brightness picks a character from an ordered list.
              Fast and simple. Needs an ordered charset -- see --help charset.

  bitmask     compares the glyph's ink against the cell, pixel by pixel.
              Solid all-rounder.

  structure   matches edge direction and ink placement as two separate
              things. Cleanest edges and the best surfaces. Default.


SHARED BY EVERY ALGORITHM

  --algo-allow-background                                        (off)
      Solve a second colour per cell instead of drawing on one backdrop.
      Much higher fidelity -- and it stops looking like text and starts
      looking like coloured blocks. Try it with --charset blocks.

  --algo-brightness-gamma F                                      (1.0)
      Below 1 brightens the foreground. See --help grid for why output is
      dimmer than the photo.
      0.7  strong lift     0.85  gentle     1.0  off

  --algo-ramp-chars "STR"                             (" .:-=+*#%@")
      The ordered list ramp steps through, light to dark.

  --resample-filter NAME                          auto | box | triangle
                                                                  (auto)
      How the source gets resized to the working resolution every algorithm
      reads from. auto picks a real cubic filter by direction -- Mitchell
      shrinking, Catmull-Rom growing -- both sharper and smoother than a
      plain average, especially when growing a small source. box and
      triangle force one filter both ways instead: cheaper, and mostly a
      stylistic choice rather than a quality one -- try it, don't assume
      it'll matter. box is not a reconstruction of an older, simpler filter
      this tool used to use -- measured meaningfully different even from
      that -- so don't reach for it expecting "the safe old behaviour".
      auto      default, real cubic interpolation
      triangle  cheaper, closer to auto's own output than box is
      box       cheapest, the most different from auto of the three


--algo bitmask

  --algo-bitmask-softness F                                      (0.0)
      Blend a blurred match into the sharp one so a stroke sitting a pixel
      off still counts. Measured as unhelpful on real photos -- every value
      above 0 scored worse. Left in as a dial, not a recommendation.

  --algo-bitmask-blur-radius N                                     (1)
      How far a stroke may drift, in cell pixels. A cell is 8x16 at the
      default --font-match-size, so 2 is already a quarter of its width.
      Only does anything when --algo-bitmask-softness is above 0.
      1  default     2  loose     3+  shapes stop mattering


--algo structure

  --algo-structure-orientation-weight F                         (0.25)
      How much edge DIRECTION counts. This is the real dial.
      0    pure surface fidelity, softest
      0.25 balanced
      1.0  heavy outlines, and flat panels go mushy

  --algo-structure-mass-weight F                                 (1.0)
      How much WHERE THE INK SITS counts. This is what resolves shading.
      Read it against orientation-weight -- only the ratio matters.
      0.5  direction leads     1.0  balanced     2.0  placement leads

  --algo-structure-tone-weight F                                 (4.0)
      Pull toward glyphs whose ink coverage matches the cell's brightness.
      Both shape terms ignore how much ink there is, so without this you
      get the right shapes at the wrong exposure.

      Deliberately the largest of the three: getting brightness wrong is
      more obvious than getting a shape slightly wrong.
      1   shape wins, exposure drifts     4  default
      8   near enough a brightness ramp with shapes as a tie-break

  --algo-structure-orient-blocks WxH                             (2x4)
      Grid the cell is cut into before directions are counted. Coarse on
      purpose: pooling is what makes direction robust.

  --algo-structure-mass-blocks WxH                              (8x16)
      Grid for the ink-placement term. One pixel per block by default.
      Coarsening this is what makes T and -, or E and =, look alike to the
      scorer -- which is exactly how surfaces turn to mush.

  --algo-structure-bins N                                          (4)
      How finely direction is split, over a half turn. 4 bins is 45 degrees
      each, which is exactly what / | \ and - can express -- so finer
      binning describes angles no glyph can actually draw.
      4  default     8  finer, and slower for little gain

  --algo-structure-gradient-stride N                               (1)
      Speed/quality trade, off at the default. Above 1, the per-pixel
      gradient (the orientation term's input) is only computed on a
      stride-N grid inside each cell; ink placement (the mass term) still
      reads every pixel regardless. Measured ~10% off Structure::generate
      at stride 2, and changed the chosen glyph on ~9.6% of cells on a real
      photo -- noticeable if you go looking, not always noticeable at a
      glance. Try it, don't just leave it on.
      1  every pixel, default     2  quarter the gradient samples

  --algo-structure-fast-atan                                        (on)
      Speed/quality trade, on by default -- the one exception on this page
      to "off unless proven worth it". Replaces the exact angle calculation
      in the gradient with a polynomial approximation good to a fraction of
      a degree -- far smaller than a single bin's 45-degree width. Measured
      ~40% off buildDescriptor's share of Structure::generate, and changed
      the chosen glyph on ~0.14% of cells on a real photo: the biggest cost
      cut of any single change on this page, for a difference small enough
      to judge worth taking by default.
      --no-algo-structure-fast-atan   the exact std::atan2 + std::fmod path

  --algo-structure-flat-threshold F                              (0.02)
      Below this, a tile's orientation and mass terms are both judged too
      small to discriminate between glyphs, and picking one drops to a
      binary search by ink coverage instead of scoring all of them, tie-
      broken by which candidate's own ink sits closest to centred -- a plain
      "." reads better than a stray-looking mark on an otherwise flat patch.
      Measured on a real photo: ~47% of cells qualify, and ~0.8% of all
      cells picked a different (more centred) glyph because of it.
      0     only an exactly-uniform tile -- vanishingly rare on a real photo
      0.02  default
      a negative value disables this path entirely
