asciigen -- edges

Finds edges and stamps directional characters -- / | \ -- over the glyphs that
were chosen. Off by default.

  --edge NAME                                                   (none)
      none | scharr

  --edge-threshold F                                            (0.15)
      How strong an edge has to be before anything is stamped. The
      "how much edging" dial. A MEAN over the cell, not its strongest pixel
      -- see NOISE AND HYSTERESIS below -- so it reads lower than you'd
      expect from a peak-based detector.
      0.05  nearly everything     0.15  outlines     0.3  only the strongest

  --edge-hysteresis F                                            (0.5)
      A cell too faint for --edge-threshold on its own still survives if it
      clears threshold*F AND touches a cell that met the full threshold.
      Given as a ratio of threshold, so it stays sane however threshold is
      set. 1.0 turns hysteresis off -- a cell needs the full threshold alone.
      0.3  only continuations of a real edge     0.5  default
      0.8  lets weak edges chain a long way       1.0  off

  --edge-nms on|off                                               (on)
      Non-maximum suppression: keeps a cell's edge only if it is stronger
      than its neighbours ACROSS the line, dropping the rest. This is what
      keeps an outline one character wide. Off restores the old behaviour,
      where a blurred edge could light up three or four cells deep.

  --edge-coherence F                                            (0.55)
      How much the cell has to agree on a single direction. Rejects
      texture, where the samples point every which way and no line
      character would represent it.

      It is the fraction of the cell's edge strength pointing the same way,
      so it runs 0 to 1 and the numbers are readable: random texture lands
      near 0.3, a clean straight line near 0.9.

      0.4   lets textured cells through     0.55  default
      0.75  only unmistakable lines         above 0.9  almost nothing

  --edge-subsamples N                                              (4)
      Gradient samples per cell per axis, so 4 means 16 samples per cell.
      Cost grows with the square -- 8 is four times the work of 4.
      2  coarse and cheap     4  default     8  finer, rarely worth it


NOISE, WIDTH, AND HYSTERESIS

  Two separate problems, both fixed the same way Canny edge detection fixes
  them, and both on by default:

  WIDTH. A real edge in a photo is rarely a single sharp step -- resampling,
  blur and depth of field spread it over a few pixels, so its gradient is a
  ridge, not a spike. Thresholding a ridge lights up every cell along its
  slope, which is the three-or-four-cells-wide outline you get from a low
  threshold. --edge-nms fixes this: each cell is kept only if it is the
  local peak along the direction the edge runs, so the ridge collapses to
  the one cell that is genuinely it.

  NOISE INSIDE THE OBJECT. A stray strong pixel -- a specular highlight, a
  compression artefact -- used to be enough to flag a whole cell on its own,
  because the old magnitude was the cell's single strongest sample. It is
  now a mean over every sample in the cell, so one hot pixel among many flat
  ones gets diluted rather than deciding the cell alone.

  That fix costs you the fainter, genuinely-real end of a long edge, which
  --edge-hysteresis buys back: a faint cell is still kept if it touches one
  that met the full threshold, so a real line doesn't break up just because
  it trails off.


WHY IT IS OFF BY DEFAULT

  bitmask and structure already match glyph shape across the whole charset.
  Overwriting their choice with one of four characters throws detail away.

  Direction alone cannot tell ` from _ -- both are horizontal, they just sit
  at different heights in the cell. The base algorithms already know that;
  the edge pass does not.

  Turn it on for --algo ramp, for very small grids, or when you actually want
  the outlined look.


THE CHARSET DOES NOT NEED THESE CHARACTERS

  If - / | or \ are missing they get appended to the set. Existing characters
  keep their place, and it happens after selection, so the algorithm never had
  them available to pick for a cell that is not an edge.

  A blocks charset has none of the four and used to produce no edges at all.
  It now produces all four directions.


ALPHA OUTLINE

  A second, separate pass -- its own inputs, applied AFTER --edge scharr and
  overwriting anything Scharr already stamped in the same cell. Only does
  something on a source that actually carries transparency: a sprite, a
  logo, a rendered product shot. On one of those, the alpha channel already
  IS the object's exact silhouette, so there is nothing to infer the way
  Scharr has to from brightness alone -- no missed interior lines, no
  guessing where "inside" ends.

  --edge-alpha                                                   (off)
  --no-edge-alpha
      Reads the SOURCE's own alpha channel, not the picture Scharr sees --
      that channel is gone by the time Scharr runs. On a source with no
      alpha, this prints a note and does nothing.

  --edge-alpha-threshold F                                       (0.5)
      How much alpha has to swing across a cell. Higher than Scharr's
      default on purpose: a real alpha edge is close to a hard 0-to-255
      step, so this rarely needs lowering.

  --edge-alpha-coherence F                                       (0.6)
      Same meaning as --edge-coherence, applied to the alpha gradient's own
      direction.

  Shares --edge-subsamples and --edge-hysteresis with Scharr -- both are
  about sampling density and ridge cleanup, which mean the same thing for
  either channel.
