asciigen -- font

  --font-path PATH                                   (system monospace)
      The font glyphs are drawn from. Left alone, the first monospace face
      your OS has is used -- Consolas on Windows, Menlo on macOS, DejaVu Sans
      Mono on Linux. No font ships with the project.

  --font-match-size N                                             (16)
      Glyph height in pixels used for MATCHING. Bigger tells glyphs apart
      more finely and costs time. 16 is plenty for most work.

  --font-render-size N                                       (32/auto)
      Glyph height in pixels used for the OUTPUT PICTURE. Bigger means a
      crisper PNG. With --image-height set it is worked out from that; with
      no picture size at all it defaults to 32.

      Do not go below about 24. A terminal draws readable text at 16px
      because it HINTS the stems onto the pixel grid; this does not, so at
      8x16 a letterform is a handful of grey blobs. 32 is the first size
      that reads as crisp, and 48-64 is worth it for a large wallpaper.


  --font-bold [F]                                                  (0)
      Thickens the outline before it is rasterised, so a regular face renders
      bold with no second font file. Bare --font-bold means 1; 2 is heavy.

      Applied to the OUTPUT only. Bolding the matching atlas would change
      every glyph's ink coverage and quietly skew which glyph gets picked,
      so the two are kept separate.


WIDTH IS ALWAYS HALF THE HEIGHT

  Only a height is ever given. The cell is always 1:2, whatever font you
  supply. A proportional face will therefore look wrong -- that is a
  deliberate trade for never breaking the character grid.

  Use a monospace font.


TWO SIZES, TWO JOBS

  The matching atlas only has to be big enough to tell one glyph from
  another. The render atlas decides how sharp the picture looks, and wants to
  be much bigger. Keeping them separate means matching stays fast while
  output stays clean.


MISSING CHARACTERS

  A font that lacks a character in the charset draws it blank, with no
  warning. This bites with --charset blocks: the bundled Space Mono has none
  of the Block Elements.

    --charset blocks --font-path C:/Windows/Fonts/CascadiaMono.ttf
