asciigen -- input

  --input PATH
      The picture to convert. Also accepted as a bare word, which is the
      normal way to write it:

        asciigen photo.jpg
        asciigen --input photo.jpg      same thing

  Paths are relative to wherever you ran the command, unless they are
  absolute.

  Formats: png jpg bmp tga gif psd hdr

  Also accepts video (mp4, and in principle whatever container/codec the
  underlying FFmpeg build can decode -- verified so far against H.264-in-MP4).
  Detected by content, not extension: opened and probed for a real multi-frame
  video stream, so a single still image never gets misread as one. A video
  input needs a video --out -- a pixel container (mp4, mkv, mov, avi, webm,
  m4v) or a text/ANSI one (.txt, .ans; see --help output) -- --preview below
  is the one exception.


TRIMMING AND FRAME RATE

  --start-time T / --end-time T        seconds, "mm:ss", or "hh:mm:ss[.ms]"
  --start-frame N / --end-frame N      frame numbers instead, if that's easier
  --fps N                                              (off; keeps source fps)

  Video only. The frame- and time-based forms say the same thing in different
  units -- whichever is given for a given edge (start/end) is used; giving
  both for the same edge just means the one parsed last wins, same as any
  other pair of flags that overlap. --fps only ever drops frames to reach a
  lower rate than the source has -- it does not invent frames to reach a
  higher one.

  There is no seeking (see --preview below), so trimming still costs decoding
  every frame up to --start-time/--start-frame -- just not processing or
  writing them.

    asciigen clip.mp4 --start-time 4:52 --end-time 5:10 --out clip.mp4
    asciigen clip.mp4 --fps 12 --out small.mp4


PREVIEW ONE FRAME

  --preview [N]                                                   (off)
      For a video input only: decode up to (and use) just one frame -- frame
      N, or frame 0 if N is omitted -- and run it through the ordinary
      still-image pipeline instead of processing and re-encoding the whole
      clip. Lets algorithm/render options be tuned against a real frame from
      the video without waiting on the rest of it every time.

      With --preview, a video input can be written to any image/text output
      (.png, .jpg, .ans, .txt) -- the video-only --out restriction above only
      applies without it, since without it the output really is a whole video.

      There is no seeking (see the video decoder's own notes): getting to
      frame N always means decoding frames 0..N first, so this is the
      cheapest a specific frame can ever be reached, not a shortcut past that.

        asciigen clip.mp4 --preview --out frame0.png
        asciigen clip.mp4 --preview 40 --algo bitmask --out frame40.png


TEXT PASSTHROUGH

  Give it a .ans or .txt file and nothing is converted -- the file is read and
  printed with the terminal put into the right mode first.

    asciigen art.ans

  This exists because `cat` and `type` do not switch the console into VT mode,
  so an .ans file printed with them comes out as literal escape sequences
  instead of colour.

  A .txt/.ans that's actually a saved VIDEO (see --help output) is detected
  the same way and played back instead -- one frame at a time, redrawn in
  place, paced to the fps it was saved with -- rather than dumped as one wall
  of text. Not a full player: no pause, no seeking, no looping, just start to
  end.

  Every other flag is ignored in this mode.
