asciigen -- sizing

Three different sizes, resolved in this order. They are easy to confuse.


1. HOW MANY CELLS                                       --grid-width / -height

  --grid-width N        width in characters
  --grid-height N       height in characters

  One given          the other follows from the source's shape
  Both given         used exactly, shape ignored
  Neither            terminal size when printing, otherwise 160 wide

  Cells are twice as tall as they are wide, and that is accounted for, so a
  square photo gives a grid about twice as wide as it is tall.


2. HOW MANY PIXELS PER CELL                                 --font-render-size

  --font-render-size N    glyph height in pixels for the output picture     (32)
  --font-match-size N     glyph height used for matching                    (16)

  Only a height is ever given. Width is always half of it.

  Grid x glyph size = the picture's natural size.


3. HOW BIG THE FILE IS                                             --image-*

  --image-width N       output width in pixels
  --image-height N      output height in pixels
  --image-fit MODE      none | width | height | contain | cover | stretch
  --image-align POS     top-left top top-right left center right
                        bottom-left bottom bottom-right
  --image-margin N      pixels kept clear on every side            (0)
  --image-scale F       art size as a fraction of what is left   (1.0)
  --image-aspect R      reshape the final picture, e.g. 16:9      (off)

  --image-aspect is the alternative to naming a pixel size. It grows the
  canvas to the shape you asked for and leaves the art exactly as rendered --
  no downscaling, no crop. Reach for it when a fixed --image-width would be
  throwing away resolution you just paid for with --font-render-size.

  The art is fitted into a BOX INSIDE the picture, not into the whole picture.
  margin insets the canvas by a fixed number of pixels; scale then takes a
  fraction of what is left. Both leave backdrop around the art -- and that
  empty space is what --image-align has to position within. At the default
  scale 1.0 with fit contain the art fills one axis completely, so alignment
  has nothing to do on that axis.

  Use margin for "keep 200px clear", scale for "make it 60% the size".

  Both work WITHOUT --image-width/--image-height. With no picture size given
  the canvas is whatever the grid came out as, and the art is scaled inside
  that.

    --image-scale 0.6 --image-align top-left
        art in the corner at 60%, the rest left clear for desktop icons


THE RULE: IMAGE SIZE WINS

  Ask for 1900x1200 and you get exactly 1900x1200. Everything upstream bends.

  When --image-* is given and --font-render-size is not, the glyph size is
  worked backwards from the target and clamped to 8..64 pixels. Without that
  clamp you either render tiny and blow it up into mush, or render something
  enormous and throw most of it away.

  Then: render -> scale to fit -> place on the canvas, padded with the backdrop.

  Set --font-render-size yourself and it is honoured exactly; the scale step
  takes up the difference.


FIT MODES

  none        natural size, no scaling. Crops or pads to the canvas
  width       scale until the width matches
  height      scale until the height matches
  contain     scale until it fits inside. Nothing is cut off        (default)
  cover       scale until it fills. Edges get cropped
  stretch     exactly the canvas, shape ignored


RENDER DETAIL

  --render-detail LEVEL          low | mid | high               (unset)

  One switch for "how much effort is this render worth". Sets glyph size and
  PNG effort together, so previewing and committing are one word apart:

    low     16px glyphs, fastest encoding
    mid     32px glyphs, moderate encoding
    high    64px glyphs, smallest files

  It does NOT touch the grid. How many cells there are decides which glyphs get
  chosen and how the picture reads -- that is a styling decision, and a preview
  that changed it would be showing you different art from the one you are about
  to commit to. Use --grid-width for that, separately and on purpose.

  Because the grid is unchanged, selection costs the same at every level; what
  low buys you is the render and encode, not the whole run.

  Applied after any --preset, so it overrides the render size a preset picked;
  applied before your own flags, so --font-render-size still beats it.

  Only touches render resolution and encoding effort. It never changes which
  glyph gets chosen or what colour it is drawn in -- the composition you preview
  is the composition you get, at a different size.
